Last week you learned about
a classification algorithm
known as naive Bayes.
This week you're going to
learn about vector spaces.
And specifically, you will learn what type
of information these vectors could encode.
You'll all see different types
of applications that you can use
with these vector spaces, and
you'll see different types of
algorithms you'll be implementing.
Let's take a look at an example.
In this video,
I'm going to introduce you to the general
idea behind vector space models.
You're going to see their advantages,
along with some of their applications
in natural language processing.
So suppose you have two questions.
The first one is, where are you heading?
And the second one is, where are you from?
These sentences have identical words,
except for the last ones.
However, they both have
a different meaning.
On the other hand,
say you have two more questions
whose words are completely different but
both sentences mean the same thing.
Vector space models will help you identify
whether the first pair of questions or
the second pair are similar in meaning
even if they do not share the same words.
They can be used to
identify similarity for
a question answering,
paraphrasing, and summarization.
Vector space models will also allow you
to capture dependencies between words.
Consider this sentence.
You eat cereal from a bowl.
Here, you can see that the word cereal and
the word bowl are related.
Now let's look at this other sentence.
You buy something and
someone else sells it.
So what it's saying is that someone sells
something because someone else buys it.
The second half of the sentence
is dependent on the first half.
With vector space models,
you will be able to capture this and
many other types of relationships
among different sets of words.
Vector space models are used in
information extraction to answer
questions in the style of who,
what, where, how, and
etc., in machine translation and
in chatbots programming.
They're also used in many,
many other applications.
As a final thoughts, I'd like to share
with you this quote from John Firth,
a famous English linguist.
You shall know a word by
the company it keeps.
This is one of the most
fundamental concepts in NLP.
When using vector space models, the way
that representations are made is by
identifying the context around
each word in the text, and
this captures the relative meaning.
To recap, vector space models allow you to
represent words and documents as vectors.
This captures the relative meaning.
You learned about vector space models,
and you've seen different types of
applications where these
vector space models are used.
In the next video,
you will build them from scratch.
And specifically, you will see how they
are built using co-occurrence matrices.